In order to do that, you have to drive
down
muscle mass.
I'm pausing because I want you to
remember this
Hi, my name is John Jquish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective beyond what a lot
of sports science guys
traffic in the research that they talk
about. I talk about a from a little
different perspective and today I want
to focus on longevity. So we're going to
compare cardiovascular/endurance
type training versus strength training
for the purposes of living longer. For
many years, I feel like when I was a
kid, we were, you know, 80s, 90s, we
were inundated with this
rhetoric about how we should be always
running or something like that, jogging
people used to call it. And there was a
guy named Jim Fix who was really famous.
He was the jogging guy. He might have
even like made that term popular and uh
it was like he was just running
everywhere and I think he wrote a book
with Oprah or maybe she was just on the
cover or something like that. The guy
dropped dead in I think his mid40s and
it was when he was out for a run. Now
running doesn't make you drop dead but
poor health does. Then the question from
the scientific community was
maybe just constantly moving the body is
not really what the body needs or wants.
So I want to point out a couple of
things. One of them is that
when you do cardiovascular activity,
your goal should be you want to become a
machine that can go great distances
with
a low amount of energy. Because if you
require a high amount of energy, you
can't carry that with you and you're not
efficient. So in this activity, you're
giving the central nervous system a
whole series of signals that are telling
your body to lower muscle mass and
preserve body fat. Because if you're
going to be a more efficient machine,
having a smaller engine makes sense. So
you you end up losing muscle mass. And
that's cortisol goes up when you do
endurance type exercise, especially for
more than 20 minutes. So sustained high
heart rate for more than 20 minutes.
Cortisol goes up and it's not like a
cortisol upregulation like getting out
of bed in the morning cuz cortisol goes
up when you get out of bed in the
morning, but then it drops down in 15
minutes. When you do some endurance
training,
it might stay up there for I mean
depending on the individual, depending
on what else is going on and their
nutrition could be 6 hours. Well, if you
start doing endurance type training on a
regular basis, you're having high
cortisol for a significant percentage of
time, which is going to drive your
muscle mass down and it's going to keep
keep body fat on you. And I when I say
preserve body fat, I mean your body is
trying to keep you as fat as possible
for as long as possible. Now again, if
you want to be a marathon runner, you
have to go through this. It's part of
the process. But
I see a lot of people who are on
treadmills or out for a run and they
think they're losing
well, they say they're losing weight.
And they're right. They're losing
muscle. Uh they're not losing body fat,
though. So it to me it seems an awful
lot like that doesn't really give you
what you want. But to make things worse,
the greatest driver of long life that
has the most powerful and uncontested
research relating around it you might
think would be endurance training. It's
not. It's strength training. The reason
is because when you endurance train,
there is a metabolic benefit while
you're doing it. And when you stop doing
it, that metabolic benefit stops. But
when you build muscle, there's a
metabolic benefit to the activity of
strength training. It's much lower
actually than endurance type training.
However, when you build muscle, the
muscle has a metabolic activity
24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It's
making you a more efficient machine. In
fact, a study just came out recently
demonstrating how the great the the
easiest way to drive down your body fat
is gaining muscle. Coincidentally,
longevity research.
There are there's an incredible amount
of data that demonstrates how long life
comes from really two metrics that we
can easily measure. Body fat and
muscularity. High levels of muscularity,
low levels of body fat. Those are the
two greatest drivers of long life. And
that's not necessarily what endurance
training is going to give you. So,
everybody, including endurance athletes,
at some point really ought to focus on
strength training. Now, I would tell
somebody who runs marathons, as soon as
you're done running marathons, you need
to go to strength and you need to stay
in strength. So, it's it's not like I'm
saying don't do that because yes, there
are health benefits. And it's also very
interesting how a human can run that
incredible distance. Uh and and it is
fascinating and I understand the allure
to it. But ultimately for living longer,
you want to spend the most the largest
percentage of your life doing strength
training, not endurance training. I hope
this helped and I hope it answers a lot
of questions because I think a lot of
people will ask, well, what are you
doing for your heart when they see all
the strength training I'm doing? And I'm
like, what do you think strength
training does? Like that's a better
cardiac uh there's research on this too.
I'll put it up on the screen. Cardiac
health is strength training is a much
better driver. I think the confusion
comes from V2 max. So, a lot of people I
I think because it's a complicated test
and it's it's uh you got to get on a
treadmill and hook up a bunch of wires
and and it looks like you're you know
the the the bionic man uh the $6 million
man uh back in the 80s when $6 million
was a lot of money. It's like getting
this V2 max test. I think everybody
thinks because it's a complicated test
because it looks very sciency. Uh, oh,
that must be like the greatest test for
athleticism. The problem is to have a
great result with V2 max, you have to be
an individual
who's pushing that V2 max to be
optimized. And in order to do that, you
have to drive down
muscle mass.
I'm pausing because I want you to
remember this If you need to drive
down muscle mass, is that really good
for you? I would say maybe not. I think
V2 max is an interesting health metric,
but I think lean mass is a much better
health metric if you're interested in
living a long time. I hope this helped
and uh leave a comment if you think I'm
wrong. If you have some other research,
especially if you have some other
research that's contradictory to what
I'm saying, post the link and uh I'll
address it. Thank you and I'll see you
on the next one. If this video helped
you, I want you to subscribe and follow.
I'm going to put out videos on a regular
basis. I think they're going to help a
whole lot of people, especially if
you're one of those people that doesn't
just instantly grow from lifting regular
weights. We've got the answer for you.